CLDR-19449 Update CLDR TC page with WG details (#5689)
unicode-org/cldr: docs/site/cldr-tc.md

The CLDR Technical Committee is responsible for the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository data repository,
which encompasses:

* the data repository itself, in XML format
* the specification for the data and structure [UTS 35 (LDML)][]
* the tooling used to gather locale data, test the data and structure, and provide test data for implementations
* additional formats for the locale data (e.g., JSON)

The [CLDR home page][] provides a more detailed description. For information about the working groups (WGs) under the CLDR Technical Committee, see the descriptions below.
For the leadership of the TC and WGs, see the listings on [Unicode Technical Group Leadership][].

## CLDR Working Groups (WGs)

The CLDR WGs were established by the TC to perform tasks at the direction of the CLDR TC 

> and/or develop proposals and recommendations for Technical Decisions for approval by the TC. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and/or develop proposals and recommendations for technical decisions for approval by the TC. 
```

Author: Technical Decisions is a defined term and is intentionally capitalized. We should match the Technical Group Procedures in how we refer to them.

The CLDR WGs are standing working groups set up to address specific technical and operational domains on an ongoing basis
(e.g., technical design, CLDR infrastructure, or digitally disadvantaged languages advancement). 

All proposals and recommendations made by a CLDR WG are subject to approval or further action by the CLDR TC.
More detailed information about the procedures related to working groups are available in the [Unicode® Technical Group Procedures][]

### CLDR Conformance Testing Working Group

> The [CLDR Conformance Testing WG][] is tasked with ensuring consistency between implementations of [UTS 35 (LDML)][], the CLDR specification,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [CLDR Conformance Testing WG][] is tasked with providing code and test data to verify consistency between implementations and standards using [UTS 35 (LDML)][] (the CLDR specification).
```

> and other Unicode data-backed standards, including [ICU4C, ICU4J][], [ICU4X][], and [ECMA-402][].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those implementations and standards include [ICU4C, ICU4J][], [ICU4X][], [ECMA-402][], and others.
```

In addition to the development and maintenance of the web-based conformance scorecard,
the Working Group liaises with the other Technical Committees to ensure that:

> * New features to have high quality CLDR test data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* New features have high quality CLDR test data.
```

> * All libraries to have a conformance score for those new features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All libraries have a conformance score for those new features.
```

> * The latest library versions to be reflected in the scorecard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The latest library versions are reflected in the scorecard.
```

The CLDR Technical Committee is responsible for the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository data repository,
which encompasses:

> * the data repository itself, in XML,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* the data repository itself, in XML format
```

* the specification for the data and structure [UTS 35 (LDML)][]
* the tooling used to gather locale data, test the data and structure, and provide test data for implementations

> * additional other formats for the locale data (eg, JSON)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* additional formats for the locale data (e.g., JSON)
```

> The [CLDR home page][] provides a longer overview. For information on the working groups (WGs) under the CLDR Technical Committee, see the descriptions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [CLDR home page][] provides a more detailed description. For information about the working groups (WGs) under the CLDR Technical Committee, see the descriptions below.
```

Reviewer: I mean, an overview is supposed to be short, no?

For the leadership of the TC and WGs, see the listings on [Unicode Technical Group Leadership][].

## CLDR Working Groups (WGs)

The CLDR WGs were established by the TC to perform tasks at the direction of the CLDR TC 
and/or develop proposals and recommendations for Technical Decisions for approval by the TC. 

The CLDR WGs are standing working groups set up to address specific technical and operational domains on an ongoing basis

> (e.g., technical design, CLDR infrastructure or digitally disadvantaged languages advancement). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g., technical design, CLDR infrastructure, or digitally disadvantaged languages advancement). 
```

All proposals and recommendations made by a CLDR WG are subject to approval or further action by the CLDR TC.

> _**They can not make any Technical Decisions on their own.**_

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: I suggest removing this entirely. It is already stated in the previous sentence and putting this here in bold and italics makes us sound like we are admonishing WGs for past sins.

Author: Fair enough, I more just wanted it to be something that new people don't miss by accident since it may not be obvious that WGs need TC approval for their specific topics since they are focused on them.

More detailed information about the procedures related to working groups are available in the [Unicode® Technical Group Procedures][]

### CLDR Conformance Testing Working Group

The [CLDR Conformance Testing WG][] is tasked with ensuring consistency between implementations of [UTS 35 (LDML)][], the CLDR specification,
and other Unicode data-backed standards, including [ICU4C, ICU4J][], [ICU4X][], and [ECMA-402][].

**Goals:**

> * New features have high quality CLDR test data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* New features to have high quality CLDR test data.
```

> * All libraries have a conformance score for those new features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All libraries to have a conformance score for those new features.
```

> * The latest library versions are reflected in the scorecard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The latest library versions to be reflected in the scorecard.
```

Reviewer: All three goals should be in the aspirational tense IMHO. Alternatively, don't call them goals, but rather "standards" or "requirements". It seems odd to list goals already achieved.

**More details:** 

* Project page: <https://github.com/unicode-org/conformance>
* Dashboard: <https://unicode-org.github.io/conformance>

> * In addition to the development and maintenance of the web-based conformance scorecard, the Working Group liaises with the other Technical Committees to ensure that:

Reviewer: This section confuses me. Who is doing the below bullet points? Conformance WG or "the other TCs"? Also the grammar in the bullet points don't go together with the header.

Author: Open to suggestions, I mainly just pulled this from their page: https://cldr.unicode.org/cldr-tc/conformance_wg

Reviewer: I can't really suggest a rewording since I'm not sure what they're trying to say...

Reviewer: Well actually, [that page](https://cldr.unicode.org/cldr-tc/conformance_wg) has this:

> In addition to the development and maintenance of the web-based conformance scorecard, the Working Group liaises with the other Technical Committees to ensure that:
> 
> New features have high quality CLDR test data.
> All libraries have a conformance score for those new features.
> The latest library versions are reflected in the scorecard.

That makes more sense, you have those three bullet points before the preceding text.

Author: Updated. LMK if it matches what you were expecting.

  * Aware and involved in fixing bugs in their respective implementations of the LDML
  * Participate in Design Working Group discussions to resolve issues that stem from the need for clarity or changes in the LDML

>   * Create test data files, auto-generated for each version of CLDR data, that can be used by any i18n library wishing to ensure to its users that its functionality is conformant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Create test data files, auto-generated for each version of CLDR data, that can be used by any i18n library wishing to ensure its users that its functionality is conformant
```

### CLDR Design Working Group

The [CLDR Design WG][] is responsible for assessing and investigating issues that require design work.
This includes issues that affect the ICU-TC and ICU4X TC.

> The results are recommendations to the CLDR-TC (and possibly the ICU-TC and ICU4X TC) for resolution of the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results are recommended issue resolutions to the CLDR-TC (and possibly the ICU-TC and ICU4X TC).
```

> The recommendation may be to close the issue, or to produce a design that can meet the goals of the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommendation may be to close the issue, or to produce a design that can resolve it.
```

> The CLDR TC relies on the [CLDR Design WG][] to recommend a design for any more complex changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLDR TC relies on the [CLDR Design WG][] to recommend a design for any complex changes
```

> since the CLDR TC no longer has enough overlapping membership with library projects,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
since the CLDR TC does not have enough overlapping membership with library projects,
```

(including test data).

It also is responsible for progressing through the [CLDR BRS][],
the running list of tasks that need to be completed for a successful release of a new version of CLDR.
However, any changes to the [CLDR BRS][] need to be approved by the CLDR TC if they affect the released CLDR product. 

It was formerly known as the CLDR Infrastructure Working Group,
but was renamed to disambiguate from the Unicode Infrastructure group since both groups were sometimes referred to as ‘Infrastructure’ as shorthand.

### DDL Working Group

Contributors for _Digitally Disadvantaged Languages (DDL)_ face unique challenges.
The [CLDR DDL WG][] has been formed to evaluate mechanisms to make it easier for contributors for DDLs to:

* become contributors to CLDR
* improve the coverage for their language in CLDR
* raise the status of their contributions, so that the CLDR data for their language is incorporated into more products.

Additionally, the CLDR TC may delegate any issue requiring research for an issue affecting a DDL to the DDL WG, including but not limited to: 

> * Evaluating requests of new locale Core data requests

Reviewer: Looks weird to have just one bullet point in a list. Might as well incorporate this in the previous sentence.

Author: Fixed, but I also added about vetting CLDR organizations which I missed originally.
